Opioid Agonists can be used to alleviate pain
and in some cases treat addiction
resulting from the use of morphine, methadone,
heroin or other narcotic drugs.
All of these drugs produce the same effect
as endorphins, naturally occurring compounds that
the body produces to mask pain
and create a pleasurable feeling.
Opioid agonists are a class of medication
That provides the same effect as a
naturally occurring endorphin or opiate.
Opioid agonists target the same pain receptors
as opiates in the brain and spinal cord.
They bind to these receptors
and activate nerve pathways
in a way that mimics the effect
of an opiate drug.
Depending on the drug and the dose,
opioid agonists act on and excite these receptors
to produce results ranging from partial activation
to near total activation of the receptor.
The degree of activation effects
how the body experiences pain and pleasure.